Welcome, everybody, to the Data Science Hangout. I know that most of you have all been here
before, so welcome back. But for anyone who's just joining, this is an open space for current
and aspiring data science leaders, everybody across the data science community, to connect
and chat about some of the more human-centric questions around data science leadership.
And so we really want to create this space where everybody can participate and we can hear from
everyone. So there's a few different ways that you can jump in and ask questions. You could just
unmute yourself and ask questions live. You could put questions in the chat. And we also have a
Slido link, which Tyler will share in a moment here, where you could ask anonymous questions too.
Also, if you put a question in the Zoom chat and you want me to read it out loud instead of
calling on you, you could also put a little star at the end of it, and I'll know to just read that
out loud. But just wanted to make a quick note that the session will be recorded and shared up
to YouTube as well for anybody who missed it. But with that, I'm so excited to be joined by my
co-host for today, Nate Kratzer, who is data science manager at Brown Forman. And Nate, I'd
love to just have you introduce yourself and maybe share a little bit about the work that you do on
your team today. Great. Thanks, Rachel. And thanks to everyone for being here. Looking forward to
getting to talk to all of you for this lunch hour, or at least lunch hour where I'm located. Some of
you may be joining from other time zones. So I'm Nate. I'm a data science manager at Brown Forman.
Brown Forman is the company that owns Jack Daniels, Woodford Reserve, and several other
liquor and spirits brands. So I work with two different teams. One of them is a team that
works on actually making the liquor, which lots of fun stuff comes out of that. We get to talk about
how to produce the barrels, just all sorts of actual engineering processes. That team largely
uses Python, Tableau, and SQL to get their job done, though they are also heavy users of the
RStudio projects within the Python framework. I also work with a team that does pricing,
and I came out of that team doing a lot of pricing work, estimating price elasticities.
That team largely builds stuff in R and also uses SQL and Tableau as well, and is
mainly concerned with what happens when we change the prices on the shelves,
and how does that affect sales and profit and everything.
Awesome. Thanks, Nate. So while we're waiting for some questions to come in from the audience,
I'd love to just ask you maybe what's something that you're most excited about lately with regards
to data science? I'm excited about the way data science is slowly growing into our organization,
I think. When I started at Promforma, which was like four years ago, we had three data scientists,
and it was sort of just this side project that the organization was vaguely considering. Someone
said, you should put some money into data science, and there were some analysts already there who
were interested, and so they formed this very small data science team. I think maybe the second
person hired from the outside, that wasn't just like a convert from within. And now it's grown,
and we've also grown in a way of having data scientists embedded in other parts of the
organization. And so seeing that there's an actual effect from all of this work, and that
what started as sort of a, well, let's just try it. This is a thing we sort of are hearing about.
There's some hype too. Okay, yeah, there are actual decisions being made off of a bunch
of the products that the data science team has built. That's awesome. What are some of the,
I'm just curious, what are some of the decisions that have been made or big impacts
to the business from data science? Yeah, so they vary from things that are more
visible to you all, like what sizes should we sell on shelves? You know, like we've looked
at things like how much difference does it make, pricing, how often we should promote,
but there's also stuff we do on the back end a lot, like we've looked at.
One of my favorite things to do is to get to actually run experiments in production. And
our part of this is normally people asking like, okay, if we want to experiment with a different
shape of bourbon barrel that will hold a bit more, how many do we need to test to make sure
that it doesn't have a negative yield impact? And that we're still getting the same amount,
and then what impact might this have on color? How can we track all of those things on the back
end? Cool. So did you end up changing the barrel size or shape?
You know, that came to mind because I was recently asked about how many we need. I don't
have the results of the experiment yet. I just figured out literally how many of the larger
barrels we need to make in order to test it. That's cool. Seth, I see you just put a question
into the chat if you want to ask live. Yeah, sure. As a recurring question,
I'm very curious about, obviously we can't do the data science or analysis without the data. So
I'm just curious where you guys generally get your data from and what processes you guys have
for kind of ingesting it, prepping it so that you can kind of do the magic.
Yeah. So there's a lot of different sources that we could talk through. So I'll talk about
a few. So the pricing work that I've spent the most time with is honestly bought from Nielsen
within the United States. Liquor has a three-tiered system. So we sell to a distributor
who sells to a retailer who sells to a customer. So like I don't have any direct customer data,
right? Like I have no idea who's buying what. So we get some aggregated data from Nielsen,
which has bought it from those endpoint retailers in terms of how much they sold and at what price.
And they get a lot of it from retailer scans and then sell that back to us.
We have a data engineering team. So the process there looks roughly along the lines of Nielsen
sends a data extract in some form of text file. The engineering team ingest it. They do a few
joins for us ahead of time, expose it to us on a SQL server. And then we pull it down.
We've got an R package that works on this. So we've got a script that essentially
calls the functions we've written through pulling it from SQL, cleaning the data,
transforming it, running the model. And then post-model, we also prep the data a bit
before for things we want to do with the model of coefficients. So that we're not just saying,
oh, your price LSD is this, but we're also breaking down how it matters. We also get
a lot of data internally, more on the production side. And that's also transformed rapidly. 10
years ago, our source of data would have been a clipboard that someone was writing on by hand.
Actually, even five years ago, that would have been the case some places.
So one of the things that, and that team is very heavily, they wind up doing a lot of data
engineering, a lot of prepping for how do we even get and collect this data in the first place.
We've had issues that we've tried to deal with. We want to know how big each barrel is. So we
had a machine that rotates the barrel and in theory measures it with lasers, but occasionally
this gets miscalibrated because I don't know, someone hits it with a forklift or just machines
go out of calibration over time. And then we have to figure out like, what is the offset for this?
What should it be? So there's that end is both. I mean, depending on your perspective,
I think it's really fun in that we get to work with everything. Like what are the sensors in
the warehouse? Where are they located? Temperature, humidity, like all sorts of
fun, direct data collection, but also it means there's a lot of data engineering for that team.
Thinking about even five years ago, people using clipboards and
tracking the data that way. I see Airfax had a question in the chat and said, curious to know,
was there any particular project that helped to get buy-in from top management to expand
to the data science route? Yeah. So I think the first one was actually the pricing. And the reason
for this is the two types of projects that I think have gotten the most buy-in have so far
been ones that directly replaced other things. And therefore it's easier to see what they're doing.
And so they'd either replace an Excel process. It used to be the case that we might have an
analyst spend a week figuring out a price elasticity for one model or for one market.
And now once we have the process in place, we're using the same model in about 20 different
countries and each country has multiple markets within it, et cetera. And so just the massive
speed up of doing the same work with more accuracy, but also with more speed. And then when
we've been able to replace consultants with data that it used to be the case, we would pay an
outside analysis firm to do the analysis instead of internally setting that up. I think as I was
talking through that, there's one third case that I forgot to mention that's possibly most relevant
here. Our production team, when they were first introduced to Shiny apps, because they'd been
trying to manage everything and sort of slowly going digital through going largely from patent
paper to like Google Sheets occasionally. But it was very easy for one of our first data scientists
in production to just spin up a Shiny app that would show them the things they needed because
it could pull in data from multiple sources. It could do all the formatting within the app.
It could give them a single place to go. So there was a pretty early transition, I think,
within production to Shiny just proved out its value almost immediately in terms of, especially
for the R&D team, the things they could look at. And I think one of the very first Shiny
apps we deployed was just something where they wanted to run PCA analysis on some chemical
results. And we're just like, OK, here's the thing where you can upload your CSV and then
all of it will be run and you'll get all the charts you want right away. Right. And that
just instantly saves hours of people's time. So that got a lot of buy in as well.
That's great. Somebody had just asked me yesterday how to calculate ROI on switching over to data
science tools, and they were just asking me if I had examples from different customers. But I feel
like I never hear things in terms of dollar amounts of this is the exact ROI and that's so hard
to calculate. And I was just curious if you had done that at all. Do you think of what the
consultant's hourly cost was or what it costs in Excel? Yeah. So most formally, we have a project
that tracks us through a Shiny app, of course, in production, but it tracks specifically process
improvement. So that's that's one that that's easier to demonstrate, like if we run an experiment
and it changes the process or it allows us to increase the yield coming out of our mills.
I should say, I said Brownform is a liquor company. We also own the Cooperage that makes the
barrels and we also buy the wood directly. So like that whole barrel making processes
is within our scope. And when you're starting to look at those also warehouse conditions. So
climate change has reduced bourbon yields, essentially like hotter conditions tend to mean
we use less bourbon because more of it evaporates while it's sitting in the barrels.
You know, so we've looked at things like how do we get back to that normal state? So when you
can put it in yield terms, we don't have an overall ROI. We have,
you know, like occasionally we get estimates of like what our work would have cost if it
went through a consultant, but we've never actually like tried to add all of that up.
Yeah, I don't often see it, but they're they're asking me for it. So I was like looking through
like meetups and other recordings trying to see if people had mentioned that. I see Steve had
asked on Slido, out of interest, what are the main computing platforms that you use?
Yeah, so you're just looking for like where we actually do the math. We have
we have our studio workbench on a fairly giant server, which is where we
where we do our development. We are transitioning to also using a connect server for some of the
stuff that's in production because it will allow us to automate and also it will allow us to
separate production from dev. But maybe I should back up a second and just explain our general
tool set. So we have our studio workbench where all of us can can log in. You know, it's set up
on a Linux server with like a terabyte of RAM. We have nothing in the cloud. We do everything in
house, so we need a fairly large server to accommodate all data scientists and any of the
work we could perform. And generally that process will be we have a SQL database, a lot of stuff
in Cloudera, although production has some of their own SQL servers that I think are Microsoft
SQL servers still. And we'll wind up, you know, connecting through ODBC, pulling in our data,
running the calculations in either R or Python, and then we will push them back to a database.
And then from that, so we'll have our own section of the database that we run as an advanced
analytics team. And then we will build the front end app in either Shiny or Tableau off of that
transformed data. I see Arifath, you just asked another question that yeah, you mentioned I should
read live. So if possible, could you please shed some more light on the kind of post model work
that you perform? Sure. So, you know, for our price elasticities, like we build a model of
the entire market. So it's not just price, it's also distribution, how many stores is it in,
how is the category performs in like whiskey doing, how is the overall spirits market doing,
etc. And, you know, one of the things we do is we go back through the past year and we say,
okay, if we compare the last 13 weeks of sales to the same 13 week period a year ago,
and we apply our price elasticity to the actual pricing difference that we observed historically,
what's the impact in actual case volume. So we're, we're presenting our users with something where
they can say, oh, if I'm looking at like, this most recent week, you know, rolled up to account
for some noise. But if I'm looking at what's happening now, not just what was the price
elasticity, but how did that actually impact me based on what was happening in prices at the
market. And we've also, you know, rolled out something where, you know, using shiny users
can upload like, this is my pricing plan for next year, what would your model predict is going to
happen. Right. So the idea is that we're really as much as possible, giving them that part of that
is because users would try to do these with the, do these things with the price elasticity
coefficients on their own. And not only does that take a lot more time if a bunch of different
people are, you know, repeatedly doing the same math and different accessories, but it also was
pretty air prone. And people did not always understand the model. There are good reasons
to, you know, use the entire model as a whole and not just look at like, what would happen if I
changed the price, but actually enter a plan for, you know, price, competitors, price, whiskey segments, etc.
Thank you. I was thinking about what you said, how you were one of the first data scientists of
the team on boarded from external or externally, but now you have about 14 data scientists.
So I'm wondering what that growth looked like and how you scale data science out across the team.
Yeah. So I mentioned initially, the team came in. So I think data science and R also came to
ground foreman from a financial analyst and someone in the production team at about the
same time. And they were completely separate working independently. And then, you know, we got
a few more, a bit more interest in that initial pricing, pricing work within finance.
I was involved in the R user group in Louisville, and I met, met someone who was doing that work,
who had started in finance and internally was sort of the catalyst there. So wound up on that
team, which slowly expanded. Some of the expansion was combining with other teams that were already
interested. We had a team that was doing a bit more visualization work and ultimately combined
with them to get like this core group of six. And then a big part of the expansion
was getting spoke rules. So we run on a model where there's, there's a hub of core data scientists
and they are, they are just data scientists. They report into our advanced analytics team,
but we also have folks who are say part of our production team, part of our U.S. commercial
analytics team, part of our Australia pricing team, you know, wherever there are
managers who, who want to have folks doing data science, but also directly reporting to their
team. So in those cases, what they get is they get to set the agenda really in the projects
that are worked on. But what they're provided with is we make sure that they have access to,
you know, one, the tech stack, but also to all of the data scientists in the hub,
so that they're not just this isolated person working alone, recreating the wheel every time.
And that, that is a pretty big source of growth because it is taking existing spots
and making them the third source I'd say is we've been fairly successful with year-long
internship programs. And we have three or four folks who have joined that way where we've created
new positions after they've done a year-long internship. That's cool. I see there's a quite
a few questions coming through on, on Slido as well. And Zach, I see you just put a question
into the chat as well. Can I pass the mic over to you to have you ask that one?
Yep, yep, sure. So I was just wondering, so I'm only a data analyst at the moment,
but, and I work for, in a local government, as you can probably tell I'm British and you've got
American citizens, slightly different. But I was just wondering how much of your role is you going
outside of your team saying this is where you can improve and trying to get them and persuade them
and trying to get them and persuade them to make that improvement. And that's how much of that is
them going, we've got a problem here. Nate and his team have solved a problem for someone else.
They can probably help solve our problem and then go to you. Yeah. So initially when we first like
formed an advanced analytics data science team, there was a bit of saying, Hey, this is stuff we
can do. Please, please come to us with problems like that. And that was our director at the time,
at the time I was a senior data scientist, not really as involved with like soliciting work from
the rest of the organization. And now we're at a point where we have enough work without soliciting
it from the rest of the organization, where there are definitely times where I think it would be
nice if the rest of the organization would do things in more of the data science way, of course,
but like we have enough people who want our help that I'm not going to like push data science
on people who don't want our help yet. So we've been pretty much able to just work with the
problems that people have. We've also, so I guess the one exception to that perhaps is we've been
working on adoption. So, you know, like within pricing, there's, there's a lot of support from
corporate and for some of the high level folks, but then you get into the question of, well,
what if we're reaching out to salespeople on the ground and to some of the smaller countries,
smaller markets doing some trainings there? And I mean, that's largely like, again, our,
our partners who actually do pricing, reaching out to those other folks, but we have been trying
to focus a lot of our tools on adoption. So that comes both in the occasional training meeting,
but also documentation, usability of tools. Most of our revisions are focused not now on adding
new features, but on making existing features clearer, making it easier for end users to work
with. Nate, I see there's two questions that are kind of similar around Shiny and Tableau.
So one said, you've mentioned Shiny and Tableau for your team. What goes into deciding when to
use which? And then I see that Ian also added, does it have to do with end user or functionality,
for example? Yeah. So it has to do with, with a lot of push things. So, I mean, one of the first
criteria, of course, is if it's not something you can do in Tableau, then we're going to use Shiny
for it. And then there's no decision. Another one that, that sort of shortcuts it is we think about
who not necessarily at the end user is, but the end maintainer. And so the reason the end user
matters less to us is we have a reasonably consistent sort of design across Shiny and
Tableau. Like folks generally know, we're going to have some filters on the left. We're going to
have a nice header telling you what it does. It's going to incorporate a little bit of our branding,
and then we're going to have some graphs in the main panel that react to the filters on the side.
So we've never really had trouble with users being confused anymore by Shiny or Tableau.
And then we have a corporate center that links dashboards. And of course, you can also just send
people links directly. So it hasn't really been a problem for end users. Where it does matter
sometimes we as a team are responsible for initially building dashboards that we want
other folks in the business to maintain. And if we want someone else to maintain it,
then we're a lot more likely to use Tableau. Of our team of 14 data scientists, we probably
have five that are pretty good at building Shiny apps and can build and maintain Shiny apps.
But that's it for the entire organization. Whereas we probably have about 100 folks who
can at least build basic Tableau apps. Now, although some are much more advanced and can
build much more complex things, but just not the user of the dashboard, but the user in terms of
the people maintaining dashboards, there's a much bigger base for Tableau. And so that
can come into consideration. The functionality has probably been the biggest thing. So using
Shiny, you know, you get version control, you get the ability to be a lot more flexible with
your data and your setup. You get the fact that you can really go end to end within a Shiny app.
So in many cases, it's a lot faster. I can often, if it's, you know, like if it's a small
enough data transformation, you know, I can just work within R the whole time, quickly build a
Shiny app, look at my results right away. I don't have to wait for this step of even like,
oh, I'm going to output this even to a CSV or to a database and then run Tableau on top of it.
So there's, I suppose it's a bit less of a consideration, but still, I think a relevant
consideration of like, what does the person building the dashboard want to use? And what
are they fastest at? You know, Tableau can make some data transformations much more difficult
than if you're working in R or Python, like it is set up as a visualization tool.
And I think Tableau is in fact an excellent visualization tool. The problems I observe
in organizations are when they try to push tools too far outside of what they're designed for.
And so like our prominent, you know, our most prominent Shiny apps where we just couldn't do
it in Tableau is our forecasting work, where we want users to be able to interact with the
forecast and like set some of the predictions. And so that's where Tableau comes in.
And then we're going to run the forecast in the background. And then while some of our pricing
stuff is, is in Tableau, you know, some of it where like, if we want users to be able to upload
any sort of data and then interact with models and so forth, that's all stuff that's going to
wind up being in Shiny. We just have a lot of additional flexibility that way. Would you be
able to, just for my understanding, to be able to give an example of what's something that would
need to be a Shiny app because of the model or what's like an exact example versus something
that would be in Tableau? The two biggest ones I've seen are needing users to upload data.
You know, like we tried something with some financial gaming in Tableau where people had
to like enter by hand into input boxes, just like everything they wanted. And it just didn't get used
because it's a pain to enter data that way. You know, like, whereas we've been able to give them
in a Shiny app, like here, you can download last year's data as a default,
change the things you want to change, upload it and see what our model says. The other one is,
is connecting directly to outside APIs. Tableau probably has some of this, but our institutional
Tableau, we can't add Tableau extensions. So we really are just dealing with like base Tableau.
So like we wanted to pull Google Trends into a dashboard, and this is easy enough in R.
There's a package for it. We pull it in, we make some nice graphs, and that's something we just
couldn't do in Tableau. Thank you. Yeah, I think it's helpful to just understand, like, because
both are great tools, but understanding when you would use one versus when you use the other
and being able to communicate that out to the team too. Yeah, and I mean, the more calculations
in general you try to put into Tableau, the harder it gets to use and maintain the workbook.
You know, like when people have to use, especially other people's Tableau workbooks,
going back through it and like unlayering and figuring out the dependencies and so forth
of, you know, which calculation relies on which other three calculations,
and what is the actual math here becomes fairly tricky. Like it's not the best tool
for all of your data manipulations, even though it can do some of them.
Thank you. Laura, I see you asked a great question about how they're using
data science today. Would you want to ask that one live?
Yeah. Hi, Nate. I find this talk super interesting. I actually used to work for
Irish distillers. So I was working on all the Irish whiskeys back in Ireland
in the marketing area. And I kind of noticed that they were really trying to make a big effort to
bring in AI and ML, particularly around our packaging. And I was just wondering,
does either your teams do anything in the marketing and advertising space in relation to
data science and analytics? Yeah, so hopefully I won't get
myself in too much trouble with my answer here. So I have talked to marketing and analytics.
And the truth is usually when they come to me with a question of like, can you tell us what
was the effect of this marketing campaign? My answer is no, I can't. Because every time I've
tried, I don't just say no up front. I'm like, OK, what data do we have? Let's take a look,
et cetera. But my answer does wind up being no, there's not enough. The short-term effects are
usually too small to capture. The long-term effects, well, there's just too much going on
with the long-term. But I also think it's interesting that you brought up where they
want to go with AI and machine learning, because that's not at all really where I'm pushing them.
I'm pushing them to run experiments. I think they should do A-B testing. I do not think
adding AI or ML is going to fundamentally solve the problems we have of not having good data,
having too many things going on at once. Yes, you're going to get some sort of pattern,
but fundamentally, I think in order to actually evaluate marketing,
you need to collect better data, and you need to actually be intentional about causal inference.
And the easiest way to do this is going to be some sort of A-B testing. I'll actually say more
broadly, while AI and machine learning gets a lot of hype, I know the common joke that
80% of the time, the business just needs a SQL query with a group by, but the other 20% of the
time, they need something more advanced. I think what they need is causal inference.
Most of the time, the business is not, and this does vary, but at least in my line of work,
most of the time, the business, for me, wants to know, did my campaign cause something to happen?
Did the price change cause something to happen? There are businesses I know where the prediction
is fine. Is this part going to wear out in so many years? There's some stuff, and obviously,
if you're dealing with image data or text and so forth, AI and machine learning is a huge revelation
there. But for a lot of your day-to-day business questions, you need data to be better organized,
you need research design, and you need some understanding of causal inference.
That's a great question, Laura. I had a follow-up on that, too. If that is what you need,
but you don't have that today, how do you communicate that to the team or teach them
maybe what data they should have? Yeah. We've been working on that,
actually, with marketing and analytics, and a lot of this is internal education. We'll see
how well it works. We're moving a little at a time. Our basic pitch has been to, first of all,
just explain what A-B testing is for folks who aren't familiar. I think it tends to be a good
entryway to understanding research design because as research designs go, it's on the simpler end.
We're going to have two groups. We're going to compare them. You're going to need us to
help you set up the groups. That I also will say you need to stress because there have been
occasions in the past where folks did think they were doing some sort of test, and what they did
was they said, we're going to run a huge media campaign in the markets that are performing best
right now and not in the other ones. They were doing this for strategic reasons, and it makes
sense perhaps as a strategy, but it also completely invalidates any sort of test if
you're shifting your funding based on which markets are performing well and not as a way
to test the actual effect of expenditures. Then we've also been trying to get them to just start
small and on things that are less threatening. Any sort of test that could result in funding
being cut, there's always going to be pushback on that, right? Right now, they're getting the
funding. They're doing the marketing. Things are going well. Why do a test when that can pretty
much only result in bad news for them? We're trying to introduce this as a way to just at
first test two different creatives against each other. You're still going to run something,
but why don't we run the more effective of the two creative materials? The hope is that that's
going to get some research design involved, but this is stuff we're working on now, so
you'll have to ask me in a year or two if this actually worked at all or if it just ran into a
dead end. Thanks, Nate. That's really helpful. Frank, I see you just put a question in the chat
if you want to ask that one live. I do. Thanks, Rachel. Nate, I'm curious. Is all the work that
your teams do one, what I said, one problem to one solution, meaning you get with your
stakeholders or your users and say, hey, what's the problem you need to solve? Okay, great.
Understand the problem. Let's build a solution, right? Maybe you maintain that. Maybe it's a
one-time analysis. Is there anything that you've worked on and your teams have worked on that
you've been able to say, oh, there's a problem here, here, and here? They have very similar
characteristics. Can we build something that can serve all three of those groups?
And right then you can scale a little bit better, but a lot of the problems that I see coming to me
and my team and a lot of other data science teams are, hey, here's my problem, and then we do a lot
of work and we solve that problem, and then we have this thing to support and maintain,
and then we do that a hundred times and we're like, oh my gosh, we're maintaining everything.
So I'm wondering if anything pops to mind. Yeah. So one, certainly we have the same thing
with stakeholders where they have one problem in mind that they want us to solve. I do think
our price elasticity work does fall into this category. So one of the things is we initially
insisted on, well, we're going to need a bunch of data because if we're going to understand the
effect of price, we need to simultaneously understand the effect of other things that
are going on. So as it turns out in our quest to just model price elasticities, we also have a way
to think about competitive sets, like who's actually competing with you on price. We have a
way to think about distribution. We have a way to think about, we've also used it for bottle size
changes. And then one other issue that we have that I'm trying to solve with modifications
of the model, and this may sound weird, although all of you are in the industry, but like defining
what a product is, is a non-trivial task. That's why I said it would sound weird. Like you think,
oh, it's 750 milliliters of Jack Daniels. But if we change the design, is it the same?
If we change the color just a little, is it the same or different? If we pair it with a shot glass,
is it the same or different? Well, clearly it's different. And clearly it also is going to take
away sales. So what do we do when it comes to the gift packaging essentially that we model
all of the time? Is that a separate problem or can we combine it in with our price elasticity models?
So what we have tried to do, I think, in the spirit of this is we really are trying to get
to a place where we have a model of the market and it answers a bunch of questions because it's
taking a fairly holistic view of the market. So it can help us answer out-of-stock questions. It
can help us answer questions about gift, about promotions, about all of this. And it's also
one model. So from like zero to a hundred percent, where do you think you are from where you want to
be? I'll go with 60 maybe. We actually have, I mean, most of this stuff works. We still have a
bit of an issue there, but we are able to use it to look at counterfactual situations, look at
actual situations. We have gotten fairly good adoption of let's look at the market this way.
Right on. Cool. Thank you.
Thanks, Nate. Arafat asked a question earlier that was how do you do different work? So for
example, data process, collection, model building, API development in your team.
Do you have dedicated people for certain tasks or is it more like everyone is doing some of
everything? Yeah. So this is a great question because I know it's a very ongoing debate in
like how to organize data science teams and if we should have specialists. And the answer within
our team is some of both. We do want people to be able to go fairly end-to-end on data science
products and also to get a chance to do different things. Like people stuck only
developing front-end dashboards are people who are going to get tired of developing front-end
dashboards eventually almost no matter how much they like it. So we do want people to get to
rotate. Probably our biggest restriction is like we've got three people on our team who can
actually push stuff to the database. So like in terms of administration, we do have some stuff
there. We do have some folks who are a bit more on the data engineering side. And while we
encourage people to develop skills across all things, certainly like not everyone is equally
proficient across R, Python, Tableau, and SQL. And so what you have will depend on what people's
skills are and what they're trying to develop. But even across the tech, I mean it looks like
you're also talking about you know process and collection, model building, experimentation,
maintenance, etc. Yet for the most part, we tend to divide that by business area rather
than by tech within. So like someone in production will actually be out at the production site
thinking about the sensors and how they get that into the database. And then they're also
going to build the model based on the temperature data collected from that sensors. And that doesn't
mean like you know within the hub we have some people who specialize more in modeling and they're
going to talk to those people about like what's an appropriate statistical model here. But yeah
they're going to code it. They're going to own it. They're going to be responsible for usually
maintaining what they build. Awesome, thank you. I love thinking about how like your data science
team is actually like right there where they're making the whiskey too. So there's a few other
anonymous questions too that came in earlier. And one was when you were talking a bit about
marketing experiments, someone said could you please share any actual examples of the experiments
run? I would love to because I would love to get marketing to run an actual experiment.
So no this is still something we're trying to get them. So I think one of the issues here is
you know I've said hey I've worked through this data. I've built out the model and you know
when I do all reasonable things that you can do to the data I just don't see this effect. I can't
detect it. Doesn't mean it's not there per se but so while I can say that internally a consultant
does not have to say that. They will tell you they can in fact see the effect of your marketing
campaign. I had a lengthy back and forth with with the consultant asking in their about
their methodology and you know essentially they're overfitting the data. You know like
they're getting there by well yeah by pretty blatantly overfitting the data. But then you
know we're in a situation where the consultant is giving a report that says hey what you're doing
works and I'm giving a report that says hey I don't know you need better research design.
And in that situation you know you can see where the the consultant's message is
is a bit more appealing. I think there's a chance we are eventually going to get to
to some internal research design but we are just not there yet. Thank you for the openness there too.
Yeah Zach I see you're talking asking a bit about R and Python together. Would you mind
asking that question live? Yep sure. So a bit of background on me. I've only started coding in the
last well just over a year now so I focus a lot on R. I can build quite efficient shiny apps and do
quite a lot in R but I've not yet expanded to Python. I was just wondering as you were just
talking about like Python and R together like in the same team would it benefit me
as someone that's looking to go into this industry to learn Python as well as R or do I
just specialize in R as much as possible and get the skills required there? Yeah so very directly
I will say specialize in one or the other and my my personal bias would be R unless you are very
much into machine learning and AI but if you want to do data work do statistics work wrangle data
and be able to present it to stakeholders just shiny markdown dplyr are things that I don't
think are quite matched in the Python ecosystem yet and while the Python ecosystem has all sorts
of great things for you know web scraping machine learning etc mostly you can do both in either
language but I do think there are still enough differences where you know I'll call those out
as perhaps a reason to choose one over the other. So the main reason we support both R and Python
is for separate data scientists you know on the market being able to have data scientists and
recruit data scientists if what they know is Python or if what they know is R. We do occasionally use
both so one example is we wanted to work on automating the scheduling of the tanks that
hold the liquid before they're dumped into bottles and it turns out that Python had a pretty good
package for doing some of that sort of automated scheduling that R did not have but we wanted to
deliver this as a shiny app and so we used the reticulate package you know so we get the data
in from from R through the shiny app and then we have a Python function that does the actual
scheduling on the back end returns the results through R. A lot of our Python folks have wound
up learning a bit of R and that's largely to present their final results because again like
we use R Markdown for reports pretty heavily we also use shiny apps and there is a fluidity to
that you know even for the Python folks like sure they could maybe do everything in Python and then
present purely in Tableau but it doesn't mix as well for a formal report if you also want like
the sort of writing that you have in Markdown so so they'll dump Python chunks in but here again
this is mostly because that's what they're familiar with so R is really forced by the
communication piece and Python could be forced if there's a package you really want to use but also
just if that's what you're already familiar with. Thanks Nate and just want to say awesome
Zach that you just started within the past year and you're already building shiny apps too that's
awesome. A quick question that is not data science related Nate but people ask where did
you get your chair from? Where did I get my chair? Oh I think I ordered it on Amazon at the beginning
of the pandemic. When I started working from home I decided to invest in a comfortable chair
and the gaming chairs were a lot cheaper than the office chairs. I'm not actually a PC gamer
despite the chair but yeah. Thank you. Robert I see you had asked the question a bit earlier
can I turn that over to you? Sure I don't know if this question will make any sense but it makes
sense in my brain. It just it feels like especially maybe during the pandemic and afterwards like
consumer goods like there's just these waves of trends that are just like totally unpredictable
that like people get really into like very niche stuff like Japanese whiskey and like certain
handbags now and sports cards and it just like totally throws off like consumer behavior. I was
just wondering if like a does that make any sense and b like is that something that you think about
or does that affect like analytics? Yeah so I mean not just during the pandemic but like bourbon
boomed from like 2011 through you know it's still booming and it's a huge question of like
will that end or like vodka had a moment in like the the zeros I guess we call them right the 2000s
especially like flavored vodka and so forth and then it really declined after that and so
there's a huge question in our our industry of like what those trends will look like
and you know I did work on a project trying to look at like the bourbon boom and
when will it end what will whiskey look like in 10 years and you know the spoiler alert is
I don't really know so like those sorts of trends are hard to predict how it affects
analytics is that a lot of our analytics is is against that background so you know like I'm
I'm generally not trying to predict how the whiskey category will do I'm looking at like
how Woodford and Jack will do within the whiskey category and that actually helped a lot during the
pandemic you know like sales were all over the place but our model was basically just like okay
yeah this is a reflection of the category and like it didn't really have a problem figuring out what
what was happening with pricing with the exception of a few places where it was literally shut down
altogether like Pennsylvania had a couple days out of a week where they just shut liquor stores
and there was like this huge bike right before and then nothing after and the price stayed the
same throughout so like that sort of thing causes a problem but in general we we try to do our
analytics against the background of consumer trends more so than than try to really figure
out consumer trends because as you pointed out they can be triggered by fairly random and hard
to describe processes. Did you have to like market certain sizes of bottles or anything like during
COVID because of supply chain issues or like not getting certain bottles my my neighbor works for
Budweiser and at one point there were just no bottles available. Yeah so during COVID
I mean one this wasn't a supply chain issue but folks did change to like buying larger sizes
in general and then yes I mean I'm fairly sure it's it's pretty public that you know we like
literally every other industry have had at least some supply chain issues that I know of I don't
know that we've pushed and marketed different stuff but I don't actually work on the the sales
team that would you know ultimately make those those sort of last mile decisions about like who
gets what product and what we market so. Yeah and I apologize if I'm mispronouncing your name but I
see you had asked a question as well around time series would you want to jump in and add any text
there? I can also read the question is what type of programming language do you use to be combined
with R in order to be used for loops and for time series with pseudo time and I may have messed up
reading that so please jump in if you want to add anything as well. Yeah so I'm not fully
aware of what what you mean by just saying pseudo time but you know our time series analysis for
for forecasting we do use R we use the stuff that's coming out of the University of Monash
like the the civil book I learned forecasting by reading Forecasting Principles and Practice by
Rob Heineman. I was initially you know given the question of like how much vodka will be sold in
Russia next year and apparently a whole lot was not a sufficient answer but like this has evolved
from there to you know we do a fair amount of testing we'll look at you know what would an
exponential smoothing model say what would an ARIMA model say try the neural net model that
almost never performed better and took a lot of time to run so we don't usually even test it now.
We'll also do just like a seasonal naive forecast as a baseline and then finally we we do use
Facebook's profit model as one of them and one of the things we like about that in some ways is the
interpretability like we we try to sell time series into the organization as you need to understand
trend and you need to understand seasonality right so we're going to make you graphs of
trend and seasonality don't worry as much about the back-end math that that's what we're going to
do I mean we're happy to you know dig people into that but as far as explaining things a lot of it
is like look at this noisy data over time here's what it looks like when we strip out seasonality
and put in a trend line here's what happens when we move the trend line forward
and then we put back in the seasonality and even just doing that I think has has actually
been helpful for the business and thinking about what's going to happen next year.
Steve I see you've been muted and I just want to take that as you're raising your hand do you have
a question? Oh sorry I just put the question in the other thing but that's fine oh yeah
so how do you cope as a data user also there's people presumably looking after your big server
which is who are doing our updates and major upgrades to our studio how do you cope with
that or do you do you let them change the system or do you have some way of parallel running what's
your what's your relationship with your sysadmins I'm speaking as a sysadmin. So we've got a guy who
is you know supposed to be running SAP but did a lot of work with Linux servers in college and was
willing to to help us so we have a part-time sysadmin who runs all of our stuff you know like
we we work together pretty closely he's always very helpful we probably do not have everything
locked down as well as we potentially should you know we a couple weeks ago ran into a an issue
where with our versions between like 3.6 and 4.0 where there was a miscommunication about like
should we be running it on which one I briefly mentioned like one reason we want to switch our
production work to RStudio Connect instead of RStudio Workbench is because Connect is going to
by default produce an isolated environment and it's going to give the user a lot more control
over what's in that environment so you know within Workbench like yes we can use tools like
RM as a user to like have our own libraries have our own systems within there but there is also a
base library and right now like that base library is what's used by the automated jobs and so we we
need all of our automated jobs to be able to run on the same set of packages right now so there's
a reason we're going to change away from that as the number of automated jobs increases but generally
yeah we just have a really helpful sysadmin who's doing this as part of his job and we could not do
it without him so yes thank you on behalf of whoever your data scientists are we appreciate sysadmins
love that so taking that a bit further then if somebody is within their team trying to find who
should be managing those that toolset or like communicating with sysadmins
steve or nate do you have any any advice for for those listening in so i'll i'll do what we're
trying to uh trying to do we try we have a teams uh microsoft teams channels where we're actually
managing that so we'll have a whole group where we'll do announcer messages on about
major services and things but then we'll have a support group where people will ask questions and
we'll provide have that as a rather than a ticketing system which is sort of
no private between the person raising the tickets and the issue what we try and do is try and get
people to publicly ask their questions usually in the hope that somebody else will answer the
question for us and thus offload the work off us but also probably have uh you know within
within teams again we'll have a like a little management channel where we
talk discuss you know do we really want to install this new version of r or what do we do about uh
versions libraries which are incompatible with what uh so somebody will want a new version of
proj or gdao which just isn't supported on our base operation system that creates all sorts of
fun and difficulties we've got to work out how to scale or to swap over so
having having a lot of communication with users to and the administrators just to try and make
sure that there is as much communication as possible so that when people ask for something
weird and exotic when we actually turn around and say well no we can't really do that because
that's going to be that's going to take no involve a lot of work which is only and you're the only
person that's probably affected people can see transparently why we've made the decisions
not to help them so it's it's a it's a challenge communication is the main thing
and also forever what we're trying to do is look forever at our infrastructure and say
have we got the right sort of mix of machines and we're currently looking at
migrating over to the cloud and uh more automation for building our studio so using
terraform and ansible and trying to work out how to do all that so it's a continuous journey
yeah that answer makes me happy because it's the same um google instead of microsoft but yeah we
have like a server use channel and that is how we coordinate with our our team and our our sysadmin
that's great thank you i know we're just at the top of the hour here do you have time for one
more question nate yeah okay awesome shannon i see you had asked a question a little bit earlier
do you want to ask that one live
i could also or shannon maybe had to drop but um the question was do you ever go back to evaluate
your predictions or forecasts to actuals yes we do um we do that pretty consistently
our our most formal process for that launched in like may so that that doesn't have a ton but
when we build out our forecasting in the first place we go back and um you know look what would
this method have forecasted if we had done it you know 10 years ago roll forward a window a year or
so um and if you look at like the forecasting principles and practice i see someone has has
dropped a link there also there's a third edition you just need to change the two at the end to a
three um and you know it talks about how you can essentially cross-validate your your forecast by
rolling through what it would have been and we've also compared it to like the forecast that uh
internal teams made um we were able to get a hold of some of those and compare like the model
forecast to the human forecast as well great thank you so aside from that forecasting principles book
are there other resources you'd recommend we take a look at i like you know reading our weekly and
data elixir as as newsletters um of course the r studio blog to keep up with some of the the new
open source stuff that's coming out there um i think so many of my my actual recommendations
though would be you know scattered of like what would i recommend to a new user what would i
recommend for forecasting what would i recommend for causal inference or price elasticities etc
so yeah that makes sense well thank you so much nate i think we've answered
all the questions from everyone unless there's anything i missed please stop me now
thank you so much for for sharing your insights with us and answering
everybody's questions um the last thing i just like to ask if anybody had follow-up
questions for you what's the best way to get in touch is it linkedin or twitter
uh probably twitter i guess um i can just put my my handle in the chat if that works perfect
well thank you so much nate really appreciate it and have a great rest of the day everyone
you